[docs-only] User Management through CS3 APIs ADR (#1930)
owncloud/ocis: docs/ocis/adr/0005-cs3-api-account-management.md

---
title: "5. Account Management through CS3 API"
date: 2021-04-12T15:00:00+01:00
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/ocis/adr
geekdocFilePath: 0004-cs3api-user-management.md
---

# 5. Account Management via CS3 API

* Status: proposed
* Deciders: @refs, @butonic, @micbar, @dragotin, @pmaier1
* Date: 2021-04-12

Technical Story: [Write only management API for User and Group resources](https://github.com/cs3org/cs3apis/pull/119)

> ## Context and Problem Statementf

Reviewer: Context and Problem Statement

│      └──────────┘                                 │
│            │                                      │
│            │                                      │
│   /api/v0/accounts/accounts-create                │
│            │                                      │
│            │                                      │
│ ┌ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─│─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┐  ┌ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─  │
│  Reva      │                    IDM             │ │
│ │          │                │  │                  │
│            ▼                                    │ │
│ │    ┌──────────┐           │  │   ┌──────────┐   │
│      │          │                  │          │ │ │
│ │    │  admin   │───────────┼──┼──▶│  GLAuth  │   │
│      │          │                  │          │ │ │
│ │    └──────────┘           │  │   └──────────┘   │
│                                                 │ │
│ │                           │  │                  │
│  ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─    ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┘ │
│                                                   │
│                                                   │
│                                                   │
│                                                   │

> │ (1) solidify driver interfaces with write         │

Reviewer 2: how will it be solidified?

Author: leftover, good catch

│                                                   │
│ (2) an example of a driver could be GLAuth        │
│ implementing the user management portion of the   │
│ GraphAPI                                          │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

> This flow allows Reva and oCIS Proxy to runs any middleware logic in order to validate a request. The communication between the proposed Admin api (CS3 API messages) with the IDM (GLAuth) are specific to the _drivers_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This flow allows Reva and oCIS Proxy to run any middleware logic in order to validate a request. The communication between the proposed Admin api (CS3 API messages) and the IDM (GLAuth) are specific to the _drivers_.
```
